README.md, before:


# Overview
This template and guidance describes how to use git and github for version control to make collaboration on complicated coding tasks easier. In the past, we have used dropbox to collaborate on do files. This approach works Ok for simple coding but gets messy for more complicated tasks because a) you can't easily tell what has changed in a do file or who made the change, b) you can't easily experiment with code changes (i.e. if you want to test out a new approach you need to create a new do file or else use the main do file and remember to roll back any changes if things don't work out), and c) if two people are working on a file at the same time (or one person forgets to save and close a file) you can get conflicted copies of a file on Dropbox. Git takes some up front time to learn but makes collaborating on files much easier. In addition, this approach makes it much easier to use tools like Claude Code for coding. 

# 1. High-level overview of this approach
With the approach outlined here, all data still lives on Dropbox but all do files (and R and python scripts if you are using them) are managed by git and github.

Staff make changes to code locally on their laptop. Once they get things working locally, they "push" (i.e. share) these changes to github. Another staff member reviews these changes and, if they look Ok, "merges" them in with the rest of the codebase. Other staff members then "pull" (i.e. copy) these code changes to their local laptops.

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         YOUR LOCAL LAPTOP                               │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────┐                                   │
│  │         Project Folder           │                                   │
│  │  ┌────────────┐  ┌────────────┐  │                                   │
│  │  │  Scripts/  │  │   Data/    │──────> Symlink to Dropbox            │
│  │  │  (git)     │  │            │  │                                   │
│  │  └────────────┘  └────────────┘  │                                   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────┘                                   │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
        │                                              │
        │ push/pull code                               │ sync automatically
        ▼                                              ▼
┌───────────────────┐                      ┌───────────────────┐
│      GitHub       │                      │      Dropbox      │
│  (code storage)   │                      │  (data storage)   │
└───────────────────┘                      └───────────────────┘
``` 


# 2. When to use this template and approach
We recommend using this template and approach for a typical data cleaning and analysis pipeline where a team of one associate, one manager, and one economist is cleaning and analyzing data from a single survey. For simpler pipelines where the associate is doing the vast majority of the work, the traditional approach of putting all the do files on dropbox is fine. For more complex pipelines, we recommend using the [IPA Stata template](https://github.com/PovertyAction/ipa-stata-template) and something like statacons to orchestrate the various do files. 

# 3. One-time setup
The following tasks must be performed once prior to using this template.  You only need to do them once. 

## Install git and the GitHub command line tools

**Mac:**
1. Open Terminal and run `git --version`. If git isn't installed, you'll be prompted to install the Xcode Command Line Tools - follow the prompts.
2. Install the GitHub CLI by first installing [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) if you don't have it, then running:
   ```
   brew install gh
   ```

**Windows:**
1. Download and install [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win). Use the default settings during installation.
2. Download and install the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/).

## Create a GitHub account and get added to the IDinsight organization

1. Go to [github.com](https://github.com) and create a free account if you don't already have one.
2. Set up two-factor authentication (2FA) on your GitHub account. Go to Settings > Password and authentication > Enable two-factor authentication. This is required for the IDinsight organization.
3. Ask your manager or a current member of the IDinsight GitHub organization to add you. They can do this by going to the [IDinsight organization settings](https://github.com/orgs/IDinsight/people) and clicking "Invite member."

## Configure git

Open Terminal (Mac) or Git Bash (Windows) and run the following commands, replacing the placeholder text with your information:

```
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@idinsight.org"
```

Then authenticate with GitHub by running:
```
gh auth login
```
Follow the prompts, selecting "GitHub.com", "HTTPS", and "Login with a web browser".

## Learn git basics

If you are completely new to git we recommend asking ChatGPT with the "study and learn" mode turned on to create a basic hands-on tutorial for you. A prompt similar to "Please put together a basic, hands-on tutorial for git and github that assumes no knowledge of git or the command line. I am a complete beginner. I use a Mac." may be useful. *Remember to turn on 'study and learn' mode.* With this mode turned on ChatGPT will gently guide you through learning git. Without it turned on you will get a wall of text. 


If you prefer self-directed resources, we also recommend:
- [Git and GitHub Introduction by Sid](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1C-TI60Mhdp25N2Qre1sCUA477hPKp4XcCOLHC4blF50/edit?usp=sharing) - IDinsight slide deck covering the basics
- [Git intro by Mico](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17dK4rbVGmkRe2k1R4ZtA_3BWTBjdT1yZl29HixR9fF0/edit?slide=id.g255e0a95d93_0_193#slide=id.g255e0a95d93_0_193) - An intro slide created by Mico. 
- [GitHub's Git Handbook](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/) - A 10-minute read covering the basics
- [Git Basics Video](https://git-scm.com/video/what-is-version-control) - Short video introduction
- Practice with [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/) - An interactive tutorial

Git is pretty complicated and allows you to do a lot. Don't attempt to learn it all in one go. Instead, we recommend starting with the basic concepts and commands listed below. These are enough to get you up and running with git. 

**Key basic concepts to understand:**

- **Working directory**: The folder on your computer where you actively edit files. When you open a do file and make changes, those changes exist only in your working directory. Git can see that something changed, but it won't track or save those changes until you explicitly tell it to.

- **Staging area**: A holding area where you prepare changes before permanently saving them. When you run `git add`, you're moving changes from your working directory to the staging area. This lets you selectively choose which changes to include in your next commit—you might have edited five files but only want to save changes to two of them.

- **Repository (repo)**: The hidden `.git` folder that stores your entire version history. When you run `git commit`, your staged changes are permanently saved to the repository as a new snapshot. You can always go back to any previous commit, so nothing is ever truly lost once it's been committed.

- **Commit**: A snapshot of your code at a specific point in time, like a save point in a video game. Each commit has a unique ID and a message describing what changed. You can view the history of all commits, compare commits to see what changed, and restore your code to any previous commit.

- **Branch**: A parallel version of your code where you can experiment without affecting the main codebase. Think of it like making a copy of a document to try out some edits—if you like them, you can merge them back; if not, you can discard the branch. The `main` branch typically contains the stable, reviewed version of your code.

- **Remote**: A version of your repository hosted on GitHub (or another server) that serves as a central backup and collaboration point. When you `push`, you upload your commits to the remote; when you `pull`, you download commits others have pushed. This is how team members share code with each other.

The flow of changes: **Working Directory** → `git add` → **Staging Area** → `git commit` → **Repository**

**Basic commands to learn first:**
- `git status` - See which files have changed and what's staged for commit
- `git add` - Stage changes to be included in your next commit
- `git commit` - Save staged changes as a new commit with a message
- `git push` - Upload your local commits to GitHub
- `git pull` - Download commits from GitHub to your local machine
- `git switch` - Switch between branches or create new ones
- `git log` - View the history of commits

**Commands to learn later:**
- `git merge` - Combine changes from one branch into another
- `git stash` - Temporarily save uncommitted changes to work on something else
- `git diff` - See exactly what changed in files
- `git reset` - Undo commits or unstage files
- `git rebase` - Reapply commits on top of another branch (advanced)



# 4. Pipeline set up tasks
The following tasks must be performed once for each new data cleaning and analysis pipeline. 

1.  **Create a new repo from this template** -
Go to the repo [webpage](https://github.com/IDinsight/data_cleaning_and_analysis_template) and click on "Use this template" and then "Create a new repository. Set the owner to be "IDinsight", choose a name for the repository; add a description; and set the visibility to "private"
2. **Clone the repo** - Open Terminal (Mac) or Git Bash (Windows), navigate to where you want to store the code, and run:
   ```
   gh repo clone IDinsight/<repo-name>
   ```
   Replace `<repo-name>` with the name of the repository you created. This creates a local copy of the repository on your computer.

3. **Add symlink for Dropbox data folder** - Since data lives on Dropbox but code is managed by git, we use a symbolic link (symlink) to connect them. This lets your do files reference a `Data` folder that actually points to the Dropbox location.

   **Mac:**
   ```
   cd <repo-name>
   ln -s "/Users/<username>/Dropbox/<project-folder>/Data" Data
   ```

   **Windows (run as Administrator):**
   ```
   cd <repo-name>
   mklink /D Data "C:\Users\<username>\Dropbox\<project-folder>\Data"
   ```

   Replace the paths with your actual Dropbox data folder location. The symlink (`Data`) is already in `.gitignore` so it won't be tracked by git.

# 5. Recommended git workflow

We recommend using the **feature branch workflow**. This means:
- The `main` branch always contains working, reviewed code
- All new work happens on separate "feature branches"
- Changes are reviewed via pull requests before being merged into `main`

```
main         ●─────────────────────────────●─────────────────> (always stable)
              \                           /
               \  create branch          / merge after review
                \                       /
feature          ●────●────●────●──────●
                      │    │    │      │
                    commit changes   push & create PR
```

**The workflow in 5 steps:**

```
┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐
│   1. BRANCH     │     │    2. CODE      │     │   3. COMMIT     │
│                 │     │                 │     │                 │
│  Create new     │────>│  Make changes   │────>│  Save progress  │
│  feature branch │     │  locally        │     │  with commits   │
└─────────────────┘     └─────────────────┘     └─────────────────┘
                                                        │
                        ┌───────────────────────────────┘
                        ▼
┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐
│   5. MERGE      │     │   4. REVIEW     │
│                 │     │                 │
│  Merge PR into  │<────│  Push & create  │
│  main branch    │     │  pull request   │
└─────────────────┘     └─────────────────┘
```

## Day-to-day workflow

**Starting new work:**
1. Make sure you're on the main branch and have the latest code:
   ```
   git switch main
   git pull
   ```
2. Create a new branch for your work and switch to that branch:
   ```
   git switch -c descriptive-branch-name
   ```
   Use a short, descriptive name like `clean-baseline-data` or `fix-merge-duplicates`.

**As you work:**
1. Make changes to your do files and test that they run correctly.
2. When you reach a good stopping point, stage and commit your changes:
   ```
   git add -A
   git commit -m "Brief description of what you changed"
   ```
   Write commit messages that explain *what* changed and *why*.

**Sharing your work for review:**
1. Push your branch to GitHub:
   ```
   git push -u origin <branch-name>
   ```
2. Go to the repository on GitHub and create a **Pull Request** (PR). Add a description of your changes and request a review from your manager or teammate.

**Reviewing a pull request:**
1. Go to the repository on GitHub and click on the "Pull requests" tab.
2. Click on the PR you've been asked to review.
3. Click on the "Files changed" tab to see what code was added, modified, or removed. Lines highlighted in green are additions; lines in red are deletions.
4. Review the changes carefully:
   - Does the code do what it's supposed to do?
   - Is it clear and easy to understand?
   - Are there any obvious errors or potential issues?
5. To leave a comment on a specific line, hover over the line number and click the blue "+" icon. You can also highlight multiple lines to comment on a block of code.
6. When you're done reviewing, click the green "Review changes" button in the top right:
   - **Comment**: Leave general feedback without approving or requesting changes
   - **Approve**: The code looks good and is ready to merge
   - **Request changes**: There are issues that need to be addressed before merging
7. If you requested changes, the author will update their code and push new commits. You'll be notified to review again.

**After your PR is approved:**
1. Merge the PR on GitHub (using the "Squash and merge" option keeps history clean).
2. Switch back to main and pull the merged changes:
   ```
   git checkout main
   git pull
   ```
3. Delete your local feature branch (optional but keeps things tidy):
   ```
   git branch -d <branch-name>
   ```

## Tips
- **Commit often**: Small, frequent commits are easier to review and debug than large ones.
- **Pull before starting**: Always pull the latest `main` before creating a new branch.
- **Don't commit data**: Only commit code files. Data should stay on Dropbox.
- **Ask for help**: Git can be confusing at first. Don't hesitate to ask a colleague if you get stuck.

# 6. Troubleshooting

## Git opened a text editor (nano, vim, etc.) and I don't know how to exit

When you run certain git commands (like `git commit` without the `-m` flag, or during a merge conflict), git may open a command-line text editor for you to enter a message. This can be confusing if you're not familiar with these editors.

**If you see nano** (a simple editor with commands listed at the bottom like `^X Exit`):
- To save and exit: Press `Ctrl+X`, then `Y` to confirm, then `Enter`
- To exit without saving: Press `Ctrl+X`, then `N`

**If you see vim** (a more complex editor, often shows `~` symbols on empty lines):
- To save and exit: Press `Esc`, then type `:wq` and press `Enter`
- To exit without saving: Press `Esc`, then type `:q!` and press `Enter`

**To avoid this in the future**, always use the `-m` flag with your commit message:
```
git commit -m "Your commit message here"
```

Commit message:

specified Eric as contact for REAMDE

README.md, after:


# Overview
This template and guidance describes how to use git and github for version control to make collaboration on complicated coding tasks easier. In the past, we have used dropbox to collaborate on do files. This approach works Ok for simple coding but gets messy for more complicated tasks because a) you can't easily tell what has changed in a do file or who made the change, b) you can't easily experiment with code changes (i.e. if you want to test out a new approach you need to create a new do file or else use the main do file and remember to roll back any changes if things don't work out), and c) if two people are working on a file at the same time (or one person forgets to save and close a file) you can get conflicted copies of a file on Dropbox. Git takes some up front time to learn but makes collaborating on files much easier. In addition, this approach makes it much easier to use tools like Claude Code for coding. 

# 1. High-level overview of this approach
With the approach outlined here, all data still lives on Dropbox but all do files (and R and python scripts if you are using them) are managed by git and github.

Staff make changes to code locally on their laptop. Once they get things working locally, they "push" (i.e. share) these changes to github. Another staff member reviews these changes and, if they look Ok, "merges" them in with the rest of the codebase. Other staff members then "pull" (i.e. copy) these code changes to their local laptops.

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         YOUR LOCAL LAPTOP                               │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────┐                                   │
│  │         Project Folder           │                                   │
│  │  ┌────────────┐  ┌────────────┐  │                                   │
│  │  │  Scripts/  │  │   Data/    │──────> Symlink to Dropbox            │
│  │  │  (git)     │  │            │  │                                   │
│  │  └────────────┘  └────────────┘  │                                   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────┘                                   │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
        │                                              │
        │ push/pull code                               │ sync automatically
        ▼                                              ▼
┌───────────────────┐                      ┌───────────────────┐
│      GitHub       │                      │      Dropbox      │
│  (code storage)   │                      │  (data storage)   │
└───────────────────┘                      └───────────────────┘
``` 


# 2. When to use this template and approach
We recommend using this template and approach for a typical data cleaning and analysis pipeline where a team of one associate, one manager, and one economist is cleaning and analyzing data from a single survey. For simpler pipelines where the associate is doing the vast majority of the work, the traditional approach of putting all the do files on dropbox is fine. For more complex pipelines, we recommend using the [IPA Stata template](https://github.com/PovertyAction/ipa-stata-template) and something like statacons to orchestrate the various do files. 

# 3. One-time setup
The following tasks must be performed once prior to using this template.  You only need to do them once. 

## Install git and the GitHub command line tools

**Mac:**
1. Open Terminal and run `git --version`. If git isn't installed, you'll be prompted to install the Xcode Command Line Tools - follow the prompts.
2. Install the GitHub CLI by first installing [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) if you don't have it, then running:
   ```
   brew install gh
   ```

**Windows:**
1. Download and install [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win). Use the default settings during installation.
2. Download and install the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/).

## Create a GitHub account and get added to the IDinsight organization

1. Go to [github.com](https://github.com) and create a free account if you don't already have one.
2. Set up two-factor authentication (2FA) on your GitHub account. Go to Settings > Password and authentication > Enable two-factor authentication. This is required for the IDinsight organization.
3. Ask Eric to add your personal github account to the IDinsight github organization account

## Configure git

Open Terminal (Mac) or Git Bash (Windows) and run the following commands, replacing the placeholder text with your information:

```
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@idinsight.org"
```

Then authenticate with GitHub by running:
```
gh auth login
```
Follow the prompts, selecting "GitHub.com", "HTTPS", and "Login with a web browser".

## Learn git basics

If you are completely new to git we recommend asking ChatGPT with the "study and learn" mode turned on to create a basic hands-on tutorial for you. A prompt similar to "Please put together a basic, hands-on tutorial for git and github that assumes no knowledge of git or the command line. I am a complete beginner. I use a Mac." may be useful. *Remember to turn on 'study and learn' mode.* With this mode turned on ChatGPT will gently guide you through learning git. Without it turned on you will get a wall of text. 


If you prefer self-directed resources, we also recommend:
- [Git and GitHub Introduction by Sid](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1C-TI60Mhdp25N2Qre1sCUA477hPKp4XcCOLHC4blF50/edit?usp=sharing) - IDinsight slide deck covering the basics
- [Git intro by Mico](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17dK4rbVGmkRe2k1R4ZtA_3BWTBjdT1yZl29HixR9fF0/edit?slide=id.g255e0a95d93_0_193#slide=id.g255e0a95d93_0_193) - An intro slide created by Mico. 
- [GitHub's Git Handbook](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/) - A 10-minute read covering the basics
- [Git Basics Video](https://git-scm.com/video/what-is-version-control) - Short video introduction
- Practice with [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/) - An interactive tutorial

Git is pretty complicated and allows you to do a lot. Don't attempt to learn it all in one go. Instead, we recommend starting with the basic concepts and commands listed below. These are enough to get you up and running with git. 

**Key basic concepts to understand:**

- **Working directory**: The folder on your computer where you actively edit files. When you open a do file and make changes, those changes exist only in your working directory. Git can see that something changed, but it won't track or save those changes until you explicitly tell it to.

- **Staging area**: A holding area where you prepare changes before permanently saving them. When you run `git add`, you're moving changes from your working directory to the staging area. This lets you selectively choose which changes to include in your next commit—you might have edited five files but only want to save changes to two of them.

- **Repository (repo)**: The hidden `.git` folder that stores your entire version history. When you run `git commit`, your staged changes are permanently saved to the repository as a new snapshot. You can always go back to any previous commit, so nothing is ever truly lost once it's been committed.

- **Commit**: A snapshot of your code at a specific point in time, like a save point in a video game. Each commit has a unique ID and a message describing what changed. You can view the history of all commits, compare commits to see what changed, and restore your code to any previous commit.

- **Branch**: A parallel version of your code where you can experiment without affecting the main codebase. Think of it like making a copy of a document to try out some edits—if you like them, you can merge them back; if not, you can discard the branch. The `main` branch typically contains the stable, reviewed version of your code.

- **Remote**: A version of your repository hosted on GitHub (or another server) that serves as a central backup and collaboration point. When you `push`, you upload your commits to the remote; when you `pull`, you download commits others have pushed. This is how team members share code with each other.

The flow of changes: **Working Directory** → `git add` → **Staging Area** → `git commit` → **Repository**

**Basic commands to learn first:**
- `git status` - See which files have changed and what's staged for commit
- `git add` - Stage changes to be included in your next commit
- `git commit` - Save staged changes as a new commit with a message
- `git push` - Upload your local commits to GitHub
- `git pull` - Download commits from GitHub to your local machine
- `git switch` - Switch between branches or create new ones
- `git log` - View the history of commits

**Commands to learn later:**
- `git merge` - Combine changes from one branch into another
- `git stash` - Temporarily save uncommitted changes to work on something else
- `git diff` - See exactly what changed in files
- `git reset` - Undo commits or unstage files
- `git rebase` - Reapply commits on top of another branch (advanced)



# 4. Pipeline set up tasks
The following tasks must be performed once for each new data cleaning and analysis pipeline. 

1.  **Create a new repo from this template** -
Go to the repo [webpage](https://github.com/IDinsight/data_cleaning_and_analysis_template) and click on "Use this template" and then "Create a new repository. Set the owner to be "IDinsight", choose a name for the repository; add a description; and set the visibility to "private"
2. **Clone the repo** - Open Terminal (Mac) or Git Bash (Windows), navigate to where you want to store the code, and run:
   ```
   gh repo clone IDinsight/<repo-name>
   ```
   Replace `<repo-name>` with the name of the repository you created. This creates a local copy of the repository on your computer.

3. **Add symlink for Dropbox data folder** - Since data lives on Dropbox but code is managed by git, we use a symbolic link (symlink) to connect them. This lets your do files reference a `Data` folder that actually points to the Dropbox location.

   **Mac:**
   ```
   cd <repo-name>
   ln -s "/Users/<username>/Dropbox/<project-folder>/Data" Data
   ```

   **Windows (run as Administrator):**
   ```
   cd <repo-name>
   mklink /D Data "C:\Users\<username>\Dropbox\<project-folder>\Data"
   ```

   Replace the paths with your actual Dropbox data folder location. The symlink (`Data`) is already in `.gitignore` so it won't be tracked by git.

# 5. Recommended git workflow

We recommend using the **feature branch workflow**. This means:
- The `main` branch always contains working, reviewed code
- All new work happens on separate "feature branches"
- Changes are reviewed via pull requests before being merged into `main`

```
main         ●─────────────────────────────●─────────────────> (always stable)
              \                           /
               \  create branch          / merge after review
                \                       /
feature          ●────●────●────●──────●
                      │    │    │      │
                    commit changes   push & create PR
```

**The workflow in 5 steps:**

```
┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐
│   1. BRANCH     │     │    2. CODE      │     │   3. COMMIT     │
│                 │     │                 │     │                 │
│  Create new     │────>│  Make changes   │────>│  Save progress  │
│  feature branch │     │  locally        │     │  with commits   │
└─────────────────┘     └─────────────────┘     └─────────────────┘
                                                        │
                        ┌───────────────────────────────┘
                        ▼
┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐
│   5. MERGE      │     │   4. REVIEW     │
│                 │     │                 │
│  Merge PR into  │<────│  Push & create  │
│  main branch    │     │  pull request   │
└─────────────────┘     └─────────────────┘
```

## Day-to-day workflow

**Starting new work:**
1. Make sure you're on the main branch and have the latest code:
   ```
   git switch main
   git pull
   ```
2. Create a new branch for your work and switch to that branch:
   ```
   git switch -c descriptive-branch-name
   ```
   Use a short, descriptive name like `clean-baseline-data` or `fix-merge-duplicates`.

**As you work:**
1. Make changes to your do files and test that they run correctly.
2. When you reach a good stopping point, stage and commit your changes:
   ```
   git add -A
   git commit -m "Brief description of what you changed"
   ```
   Write commit messages that explain *what* changed and *why*.

**Sharing your work for review:**
1. Push your branch to GitHub:
   ```
   git push -u origin <branch-name>
   ```
2. Go to the repository on GitHub and create a **Pull Request** (PR). Add a description of your changes and request a review from your manager or teammate.

**Reviewing a pull request:**
1. Go to the repository on GitHub and click on the "Pull requests" tab.
2. Click on the PR you've been asked to review.
3. Click on the "Files changed" tab to see what code was added, modified, or removed. Lines highlighted in green are additions; lines in red are deletions.
4. Review the changes carefully:
   - Does the code do what it's supposed to do?
   - Is it clear and easy to understand?
   - Are there any obvious errors or potential issues?
5. To leave a comment on a specific line, hover over the line number and click the blue "+" icon. You can also highlight multiple lines to comment on a block of code.
6. When you're done reviewing, click the green "Review changes" button in the top right:
   - **Comment**: Leave general feedback without approving or requesting changes
   - **Approve**: The code looks good and is ready to merge
   - **Request changes**: There are issues that need to be addressed before merging
7. If you requested changes, the author will update their code and push new commits. You'll be notified to review again.

**After your PR is approved:**
1. Merge the PR on GitHub (using the "Squash and merge" option keeps history clean).
2. Switch back to main and pull the merged changes:
   ```
   git checkout main
   git pull
   ```
3. Delete your local feature branch (optional but keeps things tidy):
   ```
   git branch -d <branch-name>
   ```

## Tips
- **Commit often**: Small, frequent commits are easier to review and debug than large ones.
- **Pull before starting**: Always pull the latest `main` before creating a new branch.
- **Don't commit data**: Only commit code files. Data should stay on Dropbox.
- **Ask for help**: Git can be confusing at first. Don't hesitate to ask a colleague if you get stuck.

# 6. Troubleshooting

## Git opened a text editor (nano, vim, etc.) and I don't know how to exit

When you run certain git commands (like `git commit` without the `-m` flag, or during a merge conflict), git may open a command-line text editor for you to enter a message. This can be confusing if you're not familiar with these editors.

**If you see nano** (a simple editor with commands listed at the bottom like `^X Exit`):
- To save and exit: Press `Ctrl+X`, then `Y` to confirm, then `Enter`
- To exit without saving: Press `Ctrl+X`, then `N`

**If you see vim** (a more complex editor, often shows `~` symbols on empty lines):
- To save and exit: Press `Esc`, then type `:wq` and press `Enter`
- To exit without saving: Press `Esc`, then type `:q!` and press `Enter`

**To avoid this in the future**, always use the `-m` flag with your commit message:
```
git commit -m "Your commit message here"
```
